Add Hermes Agent on Fly.io guide to blueprints (#2388)
superfly/docs: blueprints/hermes-agent-on-fly-io.html.md

---
title: Run Hermes Agent on Fly.io
layout: docs
nav: guides
date: 2026-04-28
---

> [Hermes](https://github.com/NousResearch/hermes-agent) is making waves right now, mostly because its self-improvement loop is pretty nifty. Rather than expecting the user to define and install tools to accomplish repeated tasks, Hermes pays attention to its own output, notices when it had to improvise or learn by trial and error, and then automatically writes that experience into a reusable skill it can call next time. The result is: Hermes gets better at one-shotting your workflows without you writing a single prompt template. Its value and utility increase based on usage history, so you really want to be running your Hermes on a computer, not in a sandbox.

Reviewer: This intro paragraph reads more like a marketing piece than documentation. I've rewritten to remove the marketing-speak. I'll send over the new-ish docs voice and tone guide so you have that to refer to, or point Claude at.

```suggestion
[Hermes](https://github.com/NousResearch/hermes-agent) is an AI agent from Nous Research with a built-in learning loop: it watches its own output, notices when it had to improvise to finish a task, and writes that experience back as a reusable skill it can call next time. The skill library grows with use, so Hermes works best when it runs continuously on a persistent host rather than a short-lived sandbox, which is exactly what a Fly Machine with an attached volume gives you.
```

This guide walks you through running Hermes on a Fly Machine, configuring it, and reaching its web dashboard from your laptop.

You'll need **[flyctl](https://fly.io/docs/flyctl/install/)** installed, a **Fly.io account** ([free trial](https://fly.io/docs/about/free-trial/) works), and an **LLM API key** (Anthropic, OpenAI, Google Gemini, or [OpenRouter](https://openrouter.ai/) for access to 200+ models).

> We'll use Nous Research's **official prebuilt image** (`nousresearch/hermes-agent:latest`) so there's no Dockerfile to maintain and no remote builder to wait on; Fly pulls the image straight from Docker Hub.

Reviewer: We > You to match your other guide

```suggestion
You'll use Nous Research's **official prebuilt image** (`nousresearch/hermes-agent:latest`) so there's no Dockerfile to maintain and no remote builder to wait on. Fly pulls the image straight from Docker Hub.
```

## Create the app and volume

> Hermes keeps all its state; config, API keys, sessions, skills, memories in `/opt/data` inside the container. We'll back that with a Fly volume so it persists across deploys and restarts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hermes keeps all its state in `/opt/data` inside the container. That includes config, API keys, sessions, skills, and memories. You'll back that with a Fly volume so it persists across deploys and restarts.
```

Pick an app name (must be globally unique on Fly) and a [region](https://fly.io/docs/reference/regions/) close to you, then:

```bash
fly apps create <your-hermes-app>
fly volumes create data --app <your-hermes-app> --region <region> --size 3
```

3 GB is comfortable headroom for sessions and the bundled skills directory.

## Write fly.toml

Create a directory for the deployment config and drop a `fly.toml` in it:

```toml
app = "<your-hermes-app>"
primary_region = "<region>"

[build]
  image = "nousresearch/hermes-agent:latest"

[experimental]

>   cmd = ["gateway", "run"]

Reviewer: `[experimental]` is documented as a holding area for settings not yet promoted into the main config. The promoted equivalent is `[processes]`, which other sections (`[[mounts]]`, `[[vm]]`, `[[services]]`) reference by group name — so this leaves room for a reader to add a worker or  per-group `[[vm]]` later without rewriting.

Expected to be a pure syntactic swap (the image has `ENTRYPOINT [..., "entrypoint.sh"]` and no CMD, and the canonical `[processes]` example shell-splits its string into argv), but I haven't deployed both side-by-side. Worth a quick `fly machines list --json | jq '.[].config.init'` to confirm before merging.

```suggestion
[processes]
  app = "gateway run"
```

[[mounts]]
  source = "data"
  destination = "/opt/data"

[[vm]]
  memory = "4gb"
  cpus = 2
```

A few notes:

> - **No `[build.dockerfile]`**, Fly pulls the image directly. Deploys take seconds, not minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **No `[build.dockerfile]`.** Fly pulls the image directly. Deploys take seconds, not minutes.
```

> - **`[experimental] cmd = ["gateway", "run"]`** is passed to the image's entrypoint, so the machine boots into `hermes gateway run` (the messaging gateway for Telegram, Discord, Slack, WhatsApp, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`[processes] app = "gateway run"`** defines the single process group for this app, and its command is passed to the image's entrypoint, so the Machine boots into `hermes gateway run` (the messaging gateway for Telegram, Discord, Slack, WhatsApp, etc.).
```

> - **No `[[services]]` block.** The gateway talks *outbound* to chat platforms, so you don't need a public port. The dashboard exposes API keys and shouldn't be public; we'll reach it through a Fly proxy tunnel below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **No `[[services]]` block.** The gateway talks *outbound* to chat platforms, so you don't need a public port. The dashboard exposes API keys and shouldn't be public; you'll reach it through a Fly proxy tunnel below.
```

- **4 GB / 2 CPU** is the recommended size when browser tools (Playwright/Chromium) are active. If you don't use browser tools you can drop to `shared-cpu-1x` and 1–2 GB.

## Deploy

```bash
fly deploy --app <your-hermes-app> --ha=false
```

`--ha=false` keeps it to a single machine; Hermes is stateful and you don't want two gateway processes writing to the same volume.

When the deploy finishes, the machine boots, the entrypoint bootstraps `/opt/data` (creating `.env`, `config.yaml`, `SOUL.md`, `sessions/`, `skills/`, etc.), and `hermes gateway run` starts. It'll keep running but it has no API key yet, so it can't talk to a model.

> Confirm it's alive:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tail the logs to confirm the gateway started:
```

```bash
fly logs --app <your-hermes-app>
```

You should see the bundled skills sync, then the gateway starting up.

## Configure Hermes

> SSH into the machine. The `hermes` binary lives at `/opt/hermes/.venv/bin/hermes` inside the image, but `fly ssh console` opens a login shell that resets PATH and won't find it there. Drop a symlink into `/usr/local/bin` (which is always on PATH) so `hermes` works as a bare command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSH into the machine. The `hermes` binary lives at `/opt/hermes/.venv/bin/hermes` inside the image, but `fly ssh console` opens a login shell that resets PATH and won't find it there. Add a symlink into `/usr/local/bin` (which is always on PATH) so `hermes` works as a bare command:
```

```bash
fly ssh console --app <your-hermes-app> -C \
  "ln -sf /opt/hermes/.venv/bin/hermes /usr/local/bin/hermes"
```

> Then drop into the machine and run the setup wizard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then open a shell on the machine and run the setup wizard:
```

```bash
fly ssh console --app <your-hermes-app>
hermes setup
```

The wizard walks you through model selection, tool configuration, and connecting your messaging platforms. When it's done, exit the SSH session.

Restart the machine so the gateway picks up the new config:

```bash
fly machine restart <machine-id> --app <your-hermes-app>
```

Get `<machine-id>` from `fly machine list --app <your-hermes-app>`.

## Web dashboard

Hermes has a web dashboard on port 9119 for managing sessions, skills, and config. The dashboard reads your API keys, so the upstream guidance is to never expose it on a public port. Tunnel to it instead:

In one terminal, start the dashboard inside the machine:

```bash
fly ssh console --app <your-hermes-app> -C \

>   "hermes dashboard --host 127.0.0.1 --no-open"

Reviewer: The dashboard listening on loopback isn't reachable via `fly proxy`, which tunnels to the Machine's private IPv4 address rather than into its network namespace([app-services docs](https://fly.io/docs/networking/app-services/#get-the-service-listening-on-the-right-address-within-the-vm)). Bind to `0.0.0.0` so the proxy can reach it.

```suggestion
  "hermes dashboard --host 0.0.0.0 --no-open"
```

```

In a second terminal, open a Fly proxy from your laptop:

```bash
fly proxy 9119:9119 --app <your-hermes-app>
```

> Now visit `http://localhost:9119` in your browser. The traffic goes over your authenticated Fly Wireguard tunnel; nothing is published.

Reviewer: Two fixes folded in: "Wireguard" → "WireGuard" (Fly docs convention), and the "nothing is published" claim isn't quite right once the dashboard binds to `0.0.0.0` (it's not on the public internet, but it is reachable from other Machines on your org's 6PN).

```suggestion
Now visit `http://localhost:9119` in your browser. Traffic goes over your authenticated WireGuard tunnel; the dashboard isn't published to the public internet, though it is reachable from other Machines on your organization's [private network](/docs/networking/private-networking/)
```

When you're done, `Ctrl+C` both commands. The gateway keeps running on the machine.

## Upgrading

The image is stateless; your data lives on the volume. To pull the latest Hermes:

```bash
fly deploy --app <your-hermes-app>
fly ssh console --app <your-hermes-app> -C \
  "ln -sf /opt/hermes/.venv/bin/hermes /usr/local/bin/hermes"
```

The deploy pulls `nousresearch/hermes-agent:latest` again. The second command re-creates the `/usr/local/bin/hermes` symlink; it lives on the container's filesystem, not the data volume, so each new container starts without it.

## VM sizing

If you're running heavy tool use or multiple concurrent sessions, scale up:

```bash
fly scale memory 8192 --app <your-hermes-app>
fly scale vm shared-cpu-4x --app <your-hermes-app>
```

## Useful commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|

> | `fly logs --app <your-hermes-app>` | Stream live logs |

Reviewer: Style: prefer the short -a form over --app for app-name flags

`fly proxy --app` … and friends appear ~30 times in this guide, all in the long form. The sibling guide https://github.com/superfly/docs/blob/main/blueprints/deploy-openclaw.html.md uses `-a <name>` throughout (e.g. `fly logs -a your-app-name`, `fly ssh console -a your-app-name`), and most other blueprints follow that convention (it keeps the snippets and the command table from feeling crowded).

A single repo-side find-and-replace of `--app <your-hermes-app>` → `-a <your-hermes-app>` should cover all instances. Worth doing in one pass.

```suggestion
| `fly logs -a <your-hermes-app>` | Stream live logs |
```

| `fly ssh console --app <your-hermes-app>` | SSH into the machine |
| `fly ssh console --app <your-hermes-app> -C "hermes doctor"` | Health check |
| `fly machine restart <id> --app <your-hermes-app>` | Restart after config changes |
| `fly status --app <your-hermes-app>` | Check machine status |
| `fly volumes list --app <your-hermes-app>` | List attached volumes |
| `fly ssh console --app <your-hermes-app> -C "hermes skills list"` | List learned skills |

## Troubleshooting

> **Gateway won't start**, check `hermes doctor` for missing API keys or other diagnostics:

Reviewer: Our troubleshooting style is bold heading on its own line, then the explanation as a normal sentence on the next line

```suggestion
**Gateway won't start**

Check `hermes doctor` for missing API keys or other diagnostics:
```

```bash
fly ssh console --app <your-hermes-app> -C "hermes doctor"
```

> **Out of memory**, increase RAM:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Out of memory**

Increase RAM:
```

```bash
fly scale memory 8192 --app <your-hermes-app>
```

> **Need to start fresh**, wipe the config files (skills, sessions, and memories survive):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Need to start fresh**

Wipe the config files (skills, sessions, and memories survive):
```

```bash
fly ssh console --app <your-hermes-app> -C \
  "sh -c 'rm -f /opt/data/config.yaml /opt/data/.env'"
fly machine restart <machine-id> --app <your-hermes-app>
fly ssh console --app <your-hermes-app>
hermes setup
```

To wipe everything including conversations, destroy and recreate the volume:

```bash
fly machine stop <machine-id> --app <your-hermes-app>
fly volumes destroy <volume-id> --app <your-hermes-app>
fly volumes create data --app <your-hermes-app> --region <region> --size 3

> fly machine start <machine-id> --app <your-hermes-app>

Reviewer: The current sequence stops the Machine but doesn't destroy it, and fly volumes destroy errors when a volume is still attached to a Machine — even a stopped one ([volume-manage.html.markerb:202](https://github.com/superfly/docs/blob/main/volumes/volume-manage.html.markerb#L202): "First, stop and destroy the Machine, then the unattached volume can be destroyed"). Even if the destroy succeeded, fly machine start after a fresh volumes create would fail to find the old volume ID. fly deploy re-creates the Machine and auto-attaches the new data volume by name via the [[mounts]] block in fly.toml.

```suggestion
fly machine destroy <machine-id> --force --app <your-hermes-app>
fly volumes destroy <volume-id> --app <your-hermes-app>
fly volumes create data --app <your-hermes-app> --region <region> --size 3
fly deploy --app <your-hermes-app> --ha=false
```

```

> **Skills behaving unexpectedly**, list, view, and delete:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Skills behaving unexpectedly**

List, view, and delete:
```
